Given a single low resolution input and a set of pairs of high & low resolution of training patches sampled from similiar images, reconstruct a high-resolution version of the input.
PROS: more widely applicable than reconstructive (many image) approaches
CONS: Single-image super-resolution is an extrememly ill-posed problem.
Prior work on regularizing super resolution problems has been approached by markov random field, primal sketch prior, neighbor embdding and soft edge prior
The authors propose that high-resolution patches have a sparse linear representation with respect to an overcomplete dictionary of patches randomly sampled from similiar images. Instead of observing the patch, a low resolution version (features) of the high-res version is observed using downsampling/blurring. Taking high res image formed by sparse rep and assuming that this underdetermined system of linear equations is recoverable by looking for sparsest solution using L1 convex relaxation.
The algorithm enforces patch consistency by combining patch estimates of sample 3x3 patches and an overlap of adjacent patches of 1 pixel which is slow in practice for finding sparse coefficients. Rather a fast approximation can be made by finding coefficient for each patch top down left right (raster) scan order. The features are calculated by bicubic interpolation of low res input which extracts featues useful for predicting high res output.
The technique proposed here is adaptive in the sense its automatically finds the smallest training sample representative of input using L1 and the simplicity of dictionary compared to fixed bases and learned bases makes the algorithm which performed well even on randomly samled sets, a good candidate for a variety of tasks.
For experiments, two training dataset of flower (smooth textures, sharp edges) and animal high freuency texture) images are used. A low res patch was generated using downsampling/blurring for each high res training image and 100k patches from 30 traning images for each category are used to form dictionary. A comparision using flower dictionary is made with bicubic, neighbor embedding and where it clearly outperforms the rest on a zoom of 3x of a flower, girl, pantheon, etc proving the effectiveness of sparsity as a prior for  patch based super resolution. 
Future works entails finding the appropriate number of patches and its size required for optimal dictionary.